This file contains instructions on how to install VSCode and use it for T-SQL coding, connecting with the MSSQL server as well as using Git and GitHub.

USING VSCode

    Step 1
        Download VSCode link: https://code.visualstudio.com/download  
        and install it, using any settings you see fit. (I used the recommended ones)
        For more on VSCode please go to: https://code.visualstudio.com/docs
            Instructions to install VSCode on Windows: https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/setup/windows
            Instructions to install VSCode on macOS: https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/setup/mac

    Step 2
        Just search for "sql" in the marketplace and install the extension. It'll be activated once you open a .sql file.
        link: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/tools/visual-studio-code/sql-server-develop-use-vscode?view=sql-server-ver16
        Click on install the SQL Server (mssql) extension.

    Step 3
        Go to your machine and create a folder (I named mine RecyclingDB) and create a .sql file.
        Then use VSCode to open it and the extension will be active. It requires java to be installed and it might prompt you to install Java if you do not have it.


USING GITHUB
    Push code to GitHub link with instructions and pictures: https://techobservatory.com/how-to-push-code-from-visual-studio-code-to-github/#step-1-create-a-github-repository
    
    Step 1: Create A GitHub Repository
        Once your repository is created, copy the web URL. This URL allows us to push code to this repository from VS Code.

    Step 2: Open An Existing Project With VS Code
        From the “Explorers” tab in the sidebar, click on the Open Folder button.
        Open the folder from your preferred directory and make sure all the code files are in one folder, as you’ll have to push your folder to GitHub.

    Step 3: Commit The Code Files

        Click on the Initialize Repository button from the “Source Control” tab in the sidebar.
        Now, under the Source Control panel, enter any commit message. I’m going to type “First Commit.” 
        Then, click on the ✓ icon next to Source Control heading or press Ctrl + Enter.
        Click Yes on the prompt pop-up.

        There may be a case that you receive a message saying something along the lines of: "Make sure you configure your 'user.email' and 'user.name' in git"
        If so please follow these additional steps: link: http://vcloud-lab.com/entries/powershell/solved-visual-studio-code-make-sure-you-configure-your-user-name-and-user-email-in-git
            in your command prompt navigate to the bin directory of you Git usually is: 
                cd C:\Program Files\Git\bin
            Now type your email and name like:
                git config --global user.email "you@example.com"
                git config --global user.name "Your Name"
            You can check if those are set by going into your repository, and typing:
                git config -l --show-origin

    Step 4: Push Code From Visual Studio Code To GitHub
        Inside the Source Control panel, click on the three-dot (ellipsis) icon. Select Pull, Push option from the list of options and then select "Push to" option.
        On the right corner, you will be prompted to add a remote. Click on Add Remote button.
        Next, on the top-centre, a palette will appear. Paste the copied GitHub repository URL and press Enter.
        Then, type any remote name and press Enter. I typed "First Remote"
        Open the Push to sub-menu option again. Then, choose your repository path and press Enter.
        A pop-up will appear to log in to GitHub. Choose which option you’ll use to sign – I’m using my browser.
        An authorization page will pop up in the browser. Click on the GitCredentialManager button.
        Enter your GitHub credentials
        Finally, refresh your GitHub repository URL and you will notice that the codes are successfully pushed to GitHub from your local repository.


CONNECTING TO THE SQL Server WITH VSCode

Step 1:
    Open any .sql file, even and empty .sql file. It must have focus in the code editor before you can execute the mssql commands.

Step 2:
    Press Ctrl+Shift+P or F1 to open the Command Palette.
    Type sql to display the mssql commands, or type sqlcon, and then select MS SQL: Connect from the dropdown

Step 3:
    Note: Make sure you are connected to the University's VPN before you do this step.
    Select the MS SQL: Manage Connection Profiles command.
    Then select Create to create a new connection profile for your SQL Server.
    Follow the prompts to specify the properties for the new connection profile.
    These properties have been emailed to each one of you individually!
    After specifying each value, press Enter to continue.
    For more information about manage connection profiles please visit: https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode-mssql/wiki/manage-connection-profiles
    
Step 4 - connect to Databases:
    The database names you need are HappyBakery and RecyclingDB.
    If for any reason you cannot connect please:
        (1) make sure your IP, DB name, Username, password are correct; 
        (2) make sure you followed precisely all the guidelines; 
        (3) make sure you are connected to the University VPN and your internet connection is working;
        (4) restart your VSCode, Azure DB or any editor;
        (5) restart your computer




